automation, we're going to show you how
to automate Instagram stories. Now, if
you're not already using stories, you're
leaving a golden opportunity behind. In
many cases, my own Instagram stories get
more views, more engagement, and
generate more leads than my own
Instagram posts. We're going to show you
how to use n8n and make.com to automate
the process so you don't have to go in
there manually every single day and post
your stories. With me today, I have AI
automation expert Kevin. He's going to
introduce himself real quick. Hi
everyone. So, my name is Kevin. I'm 36
years old from Malta.
I've been building AI and automations
for several years. And yeah, what we're
showing today is quite a handy
automation in the sense that we all know
that stories are important, but it's
also tough to come up with stories each
and every time that you want to promote
your business. So, what we're going to
show you are two different ways. There's
the easy and the more advanced way with
the ability to have full control over
the stories that go live on your
Instagram. You can see one example of a
story and the great thing about this is
that you have not one, not two, but in
this case three different possibilities
to select from. So, all you would need
to do once you copy this airtable
directly into your own account is to
come in here, look at the image, and
then if you decide you wanted to publish
this one, you would just change it from
to review to approved. And then the
automation or the second part of the
automation would then pick that up and
publish that and after change it to
publish. So, I'm going to show you two
different versions. There's the this
one, which allows you to choose the best
one out of three possibilities, and
there's the simpler one, which is just
you give it a prompt and a call to
action, and it immediately publishes to
your Instagram there and there. Okay,
awesome. Then we're going to walk
through the make.com version as well as
the n8n. And like Kevin said, we'll have
the easy basic version as well as the
intermediate version, which has a human
in the loop. We'll start with make.com,
but if you're interested in n8n, just
jump forward to half of the video.
>> So, over here, starting with option A,
which is the simpler version, all you
would need to do is once you imported
this into your account by going to the
three dots and hitting import blueprint
is you would go in here, you would put
in the prompt. So, in my case, I have a
lady sharing her online recipes at the
center of the image at the top. There's
a text saying, and then there's a second
part, which is if you're struggling with
weight loss, DM me guide to get my free
report. So, whatever you wanted to have
there, obviously if you're in real
estate, you would have your own prompt.
Whatever your niche or industry is, you
would just change the stuff right there.
And same thing with the call to action.
So, that would be the first part that
you would change. Over here, we have the
call to a tool called replicate, and in
this case, I'm using this tool called
flux 2 pro. You might have heard of
something like nano banana, which is one
of the best current models that Google
has released. So, you can come in here,
you can change to whatever model you
want. If you leave it to this model
right here, we're using this flux
version two. So, once you're in here,
all you would need to do is come in here
and put in your API key. So, just change
that to have your API key. And that's
pretty much it. The third node or the
third module right here is connected
directly to Blo Dato. So, if you haven't
done that, you need to come in here, hit
add, and put in your Blo Dato API key.
And you get that by going to your Blo
Dato account, go to settings, API, and
then just copy that API key and paste it
in there. And this connection is done.
Let's say that here we have a lady
sharing her online recipes right at the
center of the image as we said. If I run
this once with these three modules, this
generated the image prompt based on what
we have right here. This is now getting
the image created or done within
replicate.com with this flux image
model. And once it finishes, it will
connect directly create the story on
Instagram via Blo Dato. If we give this
a second, it should immediately, once it
finishes, have the story go live on my
Instagram. And that's all there is to it
because we're not involving any human in
the loop. It's just straight up
generating the image and then posting
directly. And I know this is really
simple, guys, but trust me, this works.
I actually posted stories like every
single day for the past 10 days and
ended up having my largest revenue month
ever for my own products. And a lot of
that engagement was actually from
Instagram stories because the people
watching your stories are already
obsessed with your content, with your
business. Right? Like they're not fed to
you. You have to actually click on
someone you like to view their story.
And so, stories are very much like an
untapped opportunity for a lot of
business owners. You can engage your
most passionate audience directly
through stories. Awesome. So, as you
might have seen, of course, I'm using it
to fail the first time, so there was an
issue with replicate, but in my case, I
just hit run once more, and now it went
through. As you can see, green, green,
green, which means that if I go to my
Instagram and refresh,
yep. So, now you can see that this is
live immediately. Obviously, there's a
typo here if we look a bit closer. So,
this is why I'm going to show you the
second method because the idea here is
that we'll use our table right here. So,
we'll have two different choices in
order for us to choose the best one. And
one thing I'll also say is that if you
use a better model like the nano banana
model that I mentioned before, the
chances of you having typos and all that
like stuff that you wouldn't want to
have in your text drastically decreases.
Yeah, I personally like to use nano
banana 2, and I forgot to mention like
the stories I was posting literally were
just using nano banana 2. The basic nano
banana 2 image, text on top, and that
was able to drive sales.
So, that was the basic version, but if
you want a little bit more quality
control, a human in the loop, Kevin will
walk through the slightly more advanced
version. Again, if you're brand new to
make, start with the basic version, then
when you feel ready, you can upgrade to
this version. So, this will start in the
same way as we had before. So, there's a
prompt and there's a call to action.
Same as the prompt, a lady sharing her
online recipes at the center of the
image at the top. There's a text saying,
and then there's a call to action. What
I have here is I'm using AI more in the
sense that I have a prompt here that
says, "You are an AI assistant that
helps create AI image generation prompts
for social media content. The user will
provide the image prompt and the call to
action text, and your job is to create a
variations of the image prompt that
incorporate both inputs. Each variation
should have a slightly different style,
mood, or composition." So, there's a bit
more depth to the whole thing, right?
Whereas before, it was just take this
and this and use it to generate the
image prompt. Now, we're a bit more sort
of involved in the whole thing. So,
there's a whole prompt, and here, as you
can see, there is variation number one,
number two, and number three, which is
why this ends up generating three images
as the user prompt when I'm giving it
the prompt and the call to action. So,
this is then able to generate three
different prompts or three different
prompts that we then generate the images
for. So, if I run this, we will see that
this will generate those three prompts,
and then it will go and call
replicate.com,
our image generator, three times. So,
it's going through once, and it will do
it the second and third time as well.
What this is doing here is that it's
outputting, as you can see, three
different results right here or three
different image prompts, and then we're
using this iterator and make in order to
get this to go through the whole thing
three times. So, first time, it will
save the record in our table, and then
do it the second and third time as well.
So, that's the first part of the
automation. Okay, so that's went through
the first time. So, I look at our table,
11:21. Let me refresh this right here.
Yep. So, let me sort by created latest.
So, now, 11:21, we have the first image
that was generated, right? So, again,
there's a typo with struggling. It would
be good to see the different versions as
well. And if we need be, we would just
upgrade or use the better model anyway.
So, we got the second one right here.
Again, I mean, this is good. So, if you
were struggling with weight loss, DM me
guide my free report. Let's see the
third one. And as you can see, that
finished the third time around as well.
So, we got third one right here. If
you're struggling with weight loss, DM
me guide to get my free report. Okay.
So, let's say this is the one that we
like because obviously there's no typos,
healthy online recipes, so that's that's
fine. And this is the one that we like.
What we will do here, and once you have
this to download in your make.com, one
thing I'll point out is that you cannot
have sort of two entry points in
make.com, right? So, you cannot have
something that starts here and something
that starts here. This would need to be
its own separate workflow. So, you'll
have two blueprints that you will be
able to download. But, once we're in
here, the second part of the automation
searches our airtable for a status
called approved, and once it finds that,
it then creates the post and then
updates the airtable. So, if I go in
here, we like this one, right? So, I
will just change this to approved, and
now if I were to run this right here, we
should see this goes to published
because the automation finished, and
then in a few seconds, this will be live
on Instagram as well. And Kevin, can you
just talk about like how does the first
row trigger? Like is that on a daily
basis or like what triggers it, what
sets it off? So, we can better
illustrate like for a business owner
who's busy, what would be their daily
workflow? So, over here, since we have
the timer, once we turn this automation,
like we flip that switch right there,
this, if we leave it at its default,
will run every 15 minutes. Now,
obviously, you might not want to post
every 15 minutes. So, what you could do
is just switch to every day, for
example, set the time when this would
run, and then like clockwork, without
you having to be on your computer, this
would run at that set time. Other
options include days of the week, so you
can choose which days you want to run
the automation to run. So, maybe Monday
to Friday, but not Yeah, if you're new
to Instagram stories, I personally
recommend three to four times a week so
you don't have to do it every single
day, but three or four times a week it
gives your audience something to look
forward to each time. Like let's say you
put together four different lead
magnets, and one is like comment guide,
the other one is comment health. You
know, it helps mix it up a little bit.
So, that's how you how I would set that
up. And obviously, you can then run this
on the same schedule as well. Okay, so
now we're going to walk through the n8n
workflow, and it's honestly pretty
similar to make. I think it's actually a
little bit easier in n8n because you can
have multiple triggers in the same
workflow, so you can kind of manage and
see everything in one place. Yes. So,
same or very, very similar idea. We have
the version one, which is the simpler
one where you choose your options right
here. So, in this case, I have the same
prompt, a lady sharing her online
recipes, etc. And then I have the call
to actions as well. Once we run that, it
would call the same replicate image
generator. Same idea with the API key
that we would just need to put in there.
And then this is pulling directly from
the choose your options node. So you
would don't even have to touch anything
in there. Once that grabs the image, it
then creates the post on Blow Data or on
Instagram via Blow Data. So same idea,
we're doing stories and then that would
go live.
>> And I really like how Kevin laid it out
here. It's that each red box is the only
thing you have to edit. It'll be
pre-loaded selected story. So you can
just focus on setting up the things in
red and then running it, testing it. And
then when you're comfortable with it,
you can customize it, take it to the
next level. Over here, this would be
sort of the second blueprint. And the
good thing about an 8 10 is that we can
have multiple triggers. So unlike Make,
we can have version sort of 2A and 2B
within the same workflow. And the idea
here is similar to what we had before is
that here you choose your options, as I
called it, where you insert again your
image prompt, your call to action. Then
we have this AI agent right here or this
call to open AI. And we have the prompt
right there. Same idea. So all you're
doing is changing the insert your image
prompt and call to action update here.
This is grabbing those three items that
the node right here would generate and
it is, as you can see, looping through
these items. So with this is going to go
through those three items and for each
of them generate the image and then
create a record in Airtable. So we end
up with something like this similar to
what we had in make.com. And if you're
cloning this Airtable database, this
base, what I have here is source. So I
have make.com and an 8 10. So if you
wanted to try them both, you would also
be able to see which one gave you which
output if you wanted to sort of try them
out both. The first part right here is
generating and creating those records
and then the second one is publishing
what you've approved. So same idea, this
is searching for records where the
status is approved. So matching this
right here. And then once that publishes
or creates the story on Instagram, we
update the status to change that so it
is published. So the idea is that it
would not publish the same thing more
than once obviously because you've set
it to approved, it publishes, changes
the status accordingly, and then that's
pretty much done. Okay, awesome. And any
tips or tricks, common pitfalls when
people set this up for the first time
anything? Obviously, you don't have many
things to change in the sense that it's
very straightforward. What do you want
your image prompt to be about? What is
your call to action? So here I would
think about what are you selling, right?
What is the end outcome that you want
people to do, whether it's going to your
site, sending you a keyword so you can
message them back. Starting with that in
mind, I think would give you better
outputs in the stories that you end up
having. So having a bank of different
angles that you might want to try can
also be one way of doing it. Other than
that, I think it's a pretty
straightforward automation. And the
great thing is that most of the time the
more straightforward things are, the
more effective they are. It's like this
is what it will do, this is what it is
doing, and there's a sort of clear
straightforward path to getting what you
want. Okay, perfect. Well, thanks so
much for walking us through this. And
you guys can grab the templates in the
video description. So you can just grab
those, import them, set up your required
accounts, right? Like Kevin walked you
through. So for this Airtable and then
Replicate to generate the images and
then Blow Data to post to Instagram. And
then that's it. You can leave this
running, just post stories multiple
times a week. It's truly an amazing way
to generate business on autopilot using
social media. So thanks so much, Kevin,
for walking us through this.